# SAEW-CPD
Change point detection is a classical branch of statistics, and its basic definition is that when a statistical property (distribution type, distribution parameter) changes due to systematic factors rather than accidental factors in a time series, the time instant is called the change point. Change point detection is widely used in biology, environmental science, human posture estimation, and other fields. Generally, distribution types are difficult to determine in practical applications. If distribution types are defined a priori in a model, not only the generalization performance is poor, but also the experimental results are limited. In this paper, a novel change point detection model ，dubbed Siamese Autoencoders with Wasserstein (SAEW), is proposed. Inspired by contrastive learning, the past time interval and current time interval are regarded as two views of a sample and input into the Siamese network. Wasserstein distance of the parameter of distributions which is generated by the encoder is used as the metric to measure where changed. Wasserstein distance is combined with labels to form a contrast loss to learn an efficient encoder. To improve the performance of the encoder, the Euclidean distance between the reconstructed view of the autoencoder and the original view is also used as the regularization terms. Finally, a Change Point Generative Network (CPGN) is constructed to generate a generative view. Euclidean distance is used to measure the distance between the generative view and the reconstructed view. Three Euclidean distances are added as regularization terms for loss to enhance the robustness of SAEW. SAEW improved the average AUC score by 8.27% over the four datasets compared to the suboptimal model in the comparison experiment. Through ablation experiments, it is verified that Wasserstein distance and regularization terms have significant improvement effects.


